the largest rubik's cube ever has 6153
movable parts and weighs as much as a
brick which is 22 times heavier than the
standard 3d puzzle
it took the designer who made the
massive rubik's cube 205 hours to
complete it
i wonder how long it takes to solve it
first things first
let's study the rubik's cube lingo it's
all simple and logical
r turn the right face of the cube
clockwise 90 degrees
our apostrophe turn the right face
counterclockwise
90 degrees l left face clockwise
l apostrophe left face counterclockwise
u upper face clockwise u apostrophe
upper face counterclockwise f
turn the front face clockwise f
apostrophe
turn the front face counterclockwise d
down face goes clockwise d apostrophe
down face goes you got it
counterclockwise
b back face clockwise b apostrophe
back face counterclockwise so as you can
see
each capital letter stands for a face of
the cube that turns clockwise
where there is an apostrophe it means
you should go
counterclockwise 90 degrees we're going
to use
eight basic moves to solve a two by two
cube
the cube will rotate clockwise if you
look at it from the right face side
that's marked with an x
[Music]
one the right finger trick it just takes
four moves
and helps us solve most of the cube turn
the right face of the cube
clockwise 90 degrees upper face
clockwise
the right face counterclockwise and
upper face
counterclockwise easy right
let's see how it looks on a real cube
turn the right face of the cube
clockwise
upper face clockwise now right face goes
counterclockwise and upper face
counterclockwise
let's do it again right clockwise upper
clockwise
right counterclockwise and upper
counterclockwise
once again right upper right
upper and the fourth time i think i
mastered it
[Music]
number two the left finger trick
this is a mirror reflection of the
previous algorithm
and it's also done in four moves the
left face goes counterclockwise
upper face counterclockwise left face
clockwise
upper face clockwise that's the
algorithm
let's see how it works on a real cube
so you turn the left face
counterclockwise
upper face counterclockwise left face
clockwise
and then upper face clockwise
and once again left upper left
upper keep going one more time
left counterclockwise upper face
counterclockwise
left face clockwise upper face clockwise
number three corner rotation just like
the previous two algorithms this one is
done in four moves
first you turn the right face clockwise
and then the front face
counterclockwise then right face goes
counterclockwise
and finally the front face turns
clockwise
let's try it right front
right front one more time
right front right front
and again clockwise counterclockwise
counterclockwise clockwise and
one final move there you go
solve the white cross on the bottom the
task here is to put together a white
cross and align its edges with the right
colored center
on each side here i'll mix it all up
first
[Music]
now let's get started to begin with
you have to put together this sequence
that looks kind of like a daisy
it's really easy and doesn't require any
special algorithms
try it yourself
[Music]
then rotate the top layer with the daisy
on it
align the right colors of the layers
with the color of the center
and rotate this layer 180 degrees
do the same thing with the remaining
[Music]
whites
and this is how you get a white cross at
the bottom
number two solve the four corner pieces
on the bottom
at this stage you'll have to put the
lower corners of the cube in the right
places
and the white side of the cube will be
solved
[Music]
here's where you'll use that r u r
apostrophe u apostrophe algorithm for
your right hand
rotate only the top layer of the cube to
find a corner
that's the same color as the centers of
the other sides
and use the algorithm until the corner
is in the right place
do the same with the rest of the corners
[Music]
at the end of this stage you should have
little upside down
t's on all sides ending at the center
piece
number three solve the four edge pieces
in the middle layer
at this stage you'll need to solve the
rest of the middle layer
so that the outer blocks are the same
color as the center
in the first case the layer you'll be
working on
is to the left on the top of the target
position
you must match it with the right color
here's how you can do it
turn the upper part to the left use the
algorithm for the right hand
rotate the cube left use the algorithm
for the left hand
in the second case the layer you'll be
working on
is to the right of the top of the target
position
you must match it with the corresponding
color turn the upper part to the right
use the algorithm for the left hand
rotate the cube right
use the algorithm for the right hand
repeat that with all the sides and
you're done
[Music]
number four solve the yellow edges on
the top layer
first you put together a yellow cross on
the yellow side of the cube
if you don't see the yellow line but
only a random set of yellow edges
start doing the algorithm
as soon as you see the yellow line start
doing the same algorithm
[Music]
and this is how you get across
number five solve the four edge pieces
on the top layer
now we need to arrange the edges of the
yellow cross
so that the second color coincides with
the color of that side
[Music]
let's get started find one edge
that's already in place rotate the top
layer of the cube to align the edge with
the corresponding color
it's important that only one edge is
matching
if two of them match you should use a
slightly modified algorithm to mix the
edges
[Music]
again only one edge should coincide in
color
keep that one in front of you and use
the same algorithm until the remaining
edges
get in the right positions
[Music]
voila
number six orient the yellow corners on
the top layer
at this stage the task is to put the
corners in place with the appropriate
colors of neighboring centers
you only need to move them into place
you're not solving them just yet
find the corner that's already in place
[Music]
in this case it's even rotated correctly
but that's not important
and use a slightly modified algorithm
until the corners are in their places
[Music]
done number seven
solve the yellow corners on the top
layer
you're almost done all you have to do is
solve the corners
rotate the cube so that the yellow side
is facing you
you'll work with the upper right corner
let's solve it corner by corner
don't rotate the cube and do everything
step by step
a lot of people make mistakes at this
stage and have to start
all over so be careful use the algorithm
you
already know in a slightly modified
order
until the corner is solved
[Music]
once you're done with one move to the
next by rotating the side that's facing
you
and using the same algorithm
[Music]
rotate the front layer so that all
colors of the cube match
and you're done
[Music]
although it looks a lot like a rubik's
cube it's actually a type of pyraminx
by the way if you want to learn to solve
a pyraminx let me know in the comments
because of the peculiar way it rotates
skew might seem like a really tough
puzzle to crack
but it isn't sound too good to be true
alright
i'm going to prove it to you let's start
with skewb abc
it consists of the parts of two types
there are eight corners
and six centers and now it's time to
master the one and only key algorithm
you'll need to solve a skewb
step one rotate the skewb with your left
hand
clockwise step two right hand clockwise
and then do the opposite step three left
hand
counterclockwise step four right hand
counterclockwise that's it
step one solve the white face
let your intuition guide you with this
step it's really simple just try it
what's really important here is to match
the corners that are next to the white
corners
just like this
[Music]
it may seem hard at first so if you need
help here you go
case one if the corner you need to
rotate is
under your left hand make one turn with
your right hand
it's the most common scenario
[Applause]
[Music]
case two if the corner you need is down
and the white side is facing you you can
deal with this situation in three steps
first rotate the cube with your left
hand then make one move with your right
hand
and move the left side back
[Music]
case three if the corner you need is on
the bottom side of the skewb
it's a bit trickier but you can fix it
in five moves
first your right hand moves up then
the left hand moves up after that
you rotate once again with your right
hand in the opposite direction
then the left hand goes down the right
hand
goes up
[Music]
and you're done with the first step
moving on to step two solve the yellow
corners
for starters let's position the skewb
white side down
and check where the yellow corners are
there are two possible scenarios
if your skewb looks like this you'll
just have to use the algorithm you've
already mastered
let's do it together hold the skewb so
that the two yellow corners on your
right
are facing different directions and the
other two are facing left
left right left right
voila if your skewb looks like this
you have to use the same algorithm then
rotate it 90 degrees
and then apply the same algorithm once
again
i promise it's easier done than said
so hold it like this and one
two three four
now it's really important that you
rotate it exactly
90 degrees go through the whole
algorithm once again
and one two three
four and it's done
the next step is step number 3 solve the
yellow center
so all the corners are solved now it's
time to put together the yellow side
again there are two possible scenarios
in case the yellow side is
already solved you can just skip step
three and move on to step four
if not use the algorithm you've
practiced
rotate this cube 180 degrees and then
use the algorithm once again let's try
it
find the yellow center use the algorithm
one two three four
rotate it and once again
left right left
right good job just one more step to go
step number four solve the remaining
centers
just like in the previous step you have
to find the right center
apply the algorithm rotate the skewb
and then use the algorithm once again
let's try with the green side
one two three four
now turn it around and one
two three four
done and now the same with the blue side
one two three four
turn around left right left
right